# To use GitHub Actions for CI/CD, make the following changes

Assuming the repo you are going to set up CI/CD for is in the below structure:

```
.github
├── dependabot.yml
├── workflows
│    ├── dev-deploy.yml
│    ├── docs.yml
│    └── prod-deploy.yml
├── bot_service
│   ├── dockerfiles
│   │   ├── api.Dockerfile
│   │   └── ui.Dockerfile
│   └── src
│       ├── backend
│       ├── frontend
│       └── logs
├── deploy.sh
├── docker-compose-main.yml
├── docker-compose-prod.yml
├── docker-compose-services.yml
└── README.md
```

- Log in to the VM.
- Run the script [setup.sh](../infra/shell_scripts/setup.sh) using `sudo chmod +x ./setup.sh && sudo ./setup.sh` as sudo/superuser to create a deployment group, user, authorized_keys for SSH, and git config for git access.
- The repo needs to be cloned using [deploy keys](https://newtuple.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DAKB/pages/196847/Everything+about+SSH#How-to-setup-a-Production-server-with-repo-access-to-GitHub%3A) initially on the VM with all `.env` files being created in the respective backend at `/fantastic-fiesta/bot_service/src/backend/etc/.env` and frontend `/fantastic-fiesta/bot_service/src/frontend/etc/.env`.
- Use the new user details,keys which are shown as output to setup deploy keys, github actions etc.


## GitHub Action Secret Details

| Secret Name | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| HOST_DEV/PROD | The IP address of the VM |
| USERNAME_DEV/PROD | The deployment user created for SSH access |
| SSH_KEY_DEV/PROD | The private SSH key for the deployment user |
| REPO_PATH_DEV/PROD | The full path to the repository on the VM |

## Add the following GitHub Action secrets for respective environments

### DEV

>- HOST_DEV
>- USERNAME_DEV
>- SSH_KEY_DEV
>- REPO_PATH_DEV

### PROD
>- HOST_PROD
>- USERNAME_PROD
>- SSH_KEY_PROD
>- REPO_PATH_PROD


Note: 
- Similary, if you are setting up a **STAGING** environment and modifying the workflow files.
- The secrets are used in the GitHub Actions workflow files to SSH into the VM and run the deployment script. The secrets should be added in the GitHub repository settings under "Secrets and variables" > "Actions".



## Some things to be taken care of:
- A `.env` file with contents from the [sample](https://github.com/newtuple/fantastic-fiesta/blob/main/.env_services_sample) at the root level is required for the common services.
- The **main** branch is for the development environment, the **prod** branch is for the production environment. Any code that is pushed/merged into these branches triggers the respective environment deployment; however, this behavior is configurable.
- Make sure that ports in the health check job for GitHub Actions are updated to get accurate health status upon deployment.
- Update the Docker and Docker Compose files as needed in the main and prod versions ( i.e, `docker-compose-main.yml` &  ), and add any common service in `docker-compose-services.yml` as per need.
- Any files that need not be version controlled should be added to `.gitignore` like `.env`, credentials, etc.
